Devrel 1140 add a new troubleshooting section under source integration (#1914)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/integrations/source/troubleshooting.md

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
description: |
  Troubleshooting source integrations.
---

## Unable to clone a repository

> If you [add](/administration/users.md#add-a-user-to-a-project) a user with **Project Admin** role to a project on Platform.sh, but you haven’t added them to the remote repository on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, they won't be able to clone the project locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you [add](/administration/users.md#add-a-user-to-a-project) a user with the Project Admin role to a project on Platform.sh,
but you haven’t added them to the remote repository on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket,
they can't clone the project locally.
```

> If the user you added to a project is using `platform get` with the CLI:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If that user tries to use `platform get` with the CLI:
```

```
$ platform get <projectID>
```

> it would return the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it returns the following error:
```

```
Failed to connect to the Git repository: git@github.com:user/github-repo.git
Please make sure you have the correct access rights and the repository exists.
```

> ### Check the external repository access rights (recommended solution)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Check external repository access rights (recommended solution)
```

Ensure the user has the correct access rights for the external integration repository.

### Clone Platform.sh repository

Clone the repository from Platform.sh, which offers a read-only mirror repository of the external integration repository.

```bash

> $ git clone <PROJECT_ID>@git.<REGION>.platform.sh:<PROJECT_ID>.git <PROJECT_NAME>

Reviewer: You're right that it's not an easy copy and paste from the console, but it seems like some sort of guidance on where to get the variables might be good. They can all be found in the console on the main project page in the panel with info about the project. So maybe mentioning that would help?

> $ git clone <PROJECT_ID>@git.<REGION>.platform.sh:<PROJECT_ID>.git

Reviewer: The `git clone` command offered in the console includes the project name, so it makes sense to me to include it here.

On further thought, it might also make sense to mention they can find the command in the console, as otherwise the variables there might not be clear to everyone.

---
title: "Troubleshooting"

> description: In this page you'll learn how to troubleshoot problems related to access rights when cloning repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to troubleshoot problems related to access rights when cloning repositories.
```

Because the text appears outside the context of the page.

---

## Unable to clone a repository

> If you [add a user](/administration/users.md#add-a-user-to-a-project) with the **Project Admin** or **Contributor** role to a project on Platform.sh,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you [add a user](/administration/users.md#add-a-user-to-a-project) to a project on Platform.sh,
```

The text currently implies it's only those two roles, but it's actually also Admins for an Environment type and I don't think it's worth spending enough space here to explain all of that. (That's the problem with have a role Project Admin and another as Admin -- they're easily confused.) So I'd suggest not getting into it.

but you haven’t added them to the remote repository on GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket,
they can't clone the project locally.

If that user tries to use `platform get` with the CLI:
```
$ platform get <projectID>
```
it returns the following error:

```
Failed to connect to the Git repository: git@github.com:user/github-repo.git
Please make sure you have the correct access rights and the repository exists.
```

> ### Check external repository access rights (recommended solution)
> 
> Ensure the user has the correct access rights for the external integration repository.
> 
> ### Clone Platform.sh repository
> 
> Clone the repository from Platform.sh, which offers a read-only mirror repository of the external integration repository.
> 
> ```bash
> $ git clone <PROJECT_ID>@git.<REGION>.platform.sh:<PROJECT_ID>.git <PROJECT_NAME>
> ```
> To find your variables, go to your console, choose the project and under **Overview**, check the panel with the variables. Note that the REGION id must be written in lower case. [Check the list](/development/public-ips.md) of regions.
> 
> {{< note theme="Warning" >}}
> 
> Changes pushed to the Platform.sh mirror repository are overwritten when other changes are pushed to the external integration repository. This method works to clone the repository, but you shouldn't rely on it for making changes.
> 
> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Solution: check external repository access rights

Ensure the user has the correct access rights for the external integration repository.
```

As discussed in [Slack](https://platformsh.slack.com/archives/C02EQLVQ8QZ/p1634670165029000?thread_ts=1634652277.027000&cid=C02EQLVQ8QZ), we shouldn't really be suggesting the second method. It'd be better to remove it.

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
description: |

>   Troubleshooting source integrations.

Reviewer: I feel like this probably still applies.

>   Troubleshooting source integrations.

Author: I've removed it.

---
title: "Troubleshooting"
description: |

>   In the following section you'll find troubleshooting guidance on source integration.

Reviewer: A description should make sense out of context, so it doesn't work with "in the following section". (I'd also change the last word to plural.)

Author: Shall I get rid of the description altogether?

---

{{< description >}}

> ## Troubleshooting while cloning the repository

Reviewer: I don't think repeating the word "troubleshooting" adds much here. I'd say this section is about errors when cloning, not other kinds of things. (Also, I'd use "a" repository.)

> When you set up an [external integration](https://docs.platform.sh/integrations/source.html) to GitHub, GitLab, or Bitbucket, an additional layer of access control gets added.

Reviewer: As I mentioned in the other PR, this isn't the [proper format for links](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/blob/master/contributing/markup-format.md#links).

Also, it's not clear to me how this relates to troubleshooting. This seems like a general statement that belongs on the overview page. Or maybe just more context.

Author: This was the original text. Maybe it could go up in the description?

Reviewer: I wouldn't say it's the description of the page as a whole, but it could work as an explanation why the problem might arise :+1:

> ### Example

Reviewer: This doesn't seem like a necessary level of structure. This whole intro should be about what kind of error people might encounter.

> If you invite a user with Project Administrator role to a project on Platform.sh, but you haven’t invited them to the remote repository on GitHub/ GitLab/Bitbucket, they won't be able to clone the project locally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you give a user the Project Admin role in a project on Platform.sh, but you haven’t invited them to the remote repository (on GitHub/GitLab/Bitbucket), they can't clone the project locally.
```

> In the following example, using either `platform get` with the CLI:

Reviewer: The example isn't something that follows immediately exactly, so I'd try to avoid that phrasing.

Also, is it necessary to include both methods? This isn't about trying to teach them how to do it, so I wonder. If so, I'd use tabs. But I think it's fine without either of them, to be honest.

```
$ platform get <projectID>
```
or the `git clone` command visible from the **Git** dropdown in the management console

```

> $ git clone git@github.com:user/github-repo.git Project Name

Reviewer: Commands can't have spaces in them like with "Project Name"
```suggestion
$ git clone git@github.com:user/github-repo.git Project-Name
```

```

> both would error with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both would return the following error:
```

```

> Failed to connect to the Git repository: git@github.com:user/github-repo.git

Reviewer: Did you test this message? I wouldn't imagine it would be the same for both commands, though maybe it would. But I didn't find the text in the CLI, so I guess it might. Does it not include the other sentence that was in the original text?

Author: The [original](https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/pull/1914) doesn't add another sentence.

Author: Yes I did and it does hold for both.

```

> ### Solution 1 (Recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Solution 1 (recommended)
```
You could also consider giving it a semantically meaningful title related to what the action is and then having "(recommending solution)"

> Ensure you have the correct access rights for the external integration repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure the user has the correct access rights for the external integration repository.
```
It's not the reader who doesn't have the rights in this example.

### Solution 2

> Clone the repository from Platform.sh, which is a repository is an read-only mirror of the external integration repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the repository from Platform.sh, which offers a read-only mirror repository of the external integration repository.
```

```bash

> $ git clone <project>@git.<region>.platform.sh:<project>.git

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ git clone <PROJECT_ID>@git.<REGION>.platform.sh:<PROJECT_ID>.git
```

Or I guess we should discuss the standards for variables/values such as this. At the very least, I'd put in "id" to make it clear it's not the name or anything.

Author: Yeah, good catch.

```

> {{< note theme="warning" title="Warning" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< note theme="warning" >}}
```

Author: I thought the "title"bit was necessary for some reason.

Reviewer: Nope: https://github.com/platformsh/platformsh-docs/blob/master/contributing/markup-format.md#notes

> Changes pushed to the Platform.sh mirror repository are overwritten when other changes are pushed to the external integration repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changes pushed to the Platform.sh mirror repository are overwritten when other changes are pushed to the external integration repository.
So this method works to clone the repository,
but you should not rely on it for making changes.
```
Or something similar to show the consequence of this.
